# News

## Concrete-Java v4.4.7 - 2015-4-28
Contains additional methods in [SuperCommunication](util/src/main/java/edu/jhu/hlt/concrete/communications/SuperCommunication.java)
to support entity linking tasks.

## Concrete-Java v4.4.6 - 2015-4-27
Notes coming soon

## Concrete-Java v4.4.5 - 2015-4-22

### `annotated-nyt` ingester added
An ingester for the [Annotated NYT Corpus](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2008T19)
has been added. See the `ingesters/annotated-nyt` package.

## Concrete-Java v4.4.4 - 2015-3-20

### `mvn site` enabled
Documentation is now build alongside the project and can be
accessed [here](http://hltcoe.github.io/concrete-java).

Javadocs can be found by clicking on a module, then looking under the
`Project Reports` section.

### `gigaword` and `alnc` ingesters added
Ingesters for [English Gigaword v5](https://catalog.ldc.upenn.edu/LDC2011T07) and
the ALNC corpus are now available. They can be found in the `ingesters` folder.

### Improved tool names
Tool names for tools have been improved to include the class, project, and
version.

### Improvements to `safe` library
The `safe` module now has support for `Communication` objects via
`SafeCommunication`.

### Additional `ingesters-base` interfaces
Consumers can now implement Stream-based ingesters via the
`edu.jhu.hlt.concrete.ingesters.base.stream` package interfaces.

### Other updates

* Small update to the `validation` library to include testing a facet of
`Tokenization` objects.
* Began adding more `package-info.java` to various packages.
* Use latest `acute` library

## Concrete-Java v4.4.3 - 2015-3-4

This update contains the latest `edu.jhu.hlt/acute` library.

## Concrete-Java v4.4.2 - 2015-2-24

### `utilt` project
Utility IO classes that were originally in the `base` module
have been moved to a different Maven project.

## Concrete-Java v4.4.1 - 2015-2-19

### `safe` module

A new module, `safe`, has been added. This project will attempt to map
required Concrete fields to Java interfaces, allowing consumers to
use these implementations without fear of write-time errors due to
missing fields.

### `MetadataTool` interface

The `MetadataTool` interface supports more detailed and easier-to-parse
strings for `AnnotationMetadata` objects. Consumers can use implementers
to easily parse and read output from tools that are then added to
`AnnotationMetadata` objects.

### Ingester implementation of `safe` and `MetadataTool`

Simple ingesters now implement `MetadataTool` and utilize the safe
code from `SafeAnnotationMetadata`.

## Concrete-Java v4.4.0 - 2015-2-18

### Thrift objects
Thrift fields are no longer public. Code that depends upon a thrift field,
such as `comm.text`, will need to be changed to use the getter methods.

In most cases, accesses can be changed with the addition of `get` or `set`,
followed by camel case. For example, `comm.getText()` or `comm.setText(myText)`.

### Introduction of `ingesters` module
Ingesters for Concrete are being moved into this project. Currently, a simple ingester
is included, as well as a library with common ingester code. The simple ingester
allows consumers to take character-based files and convert them to `Communication`
objects.

Currently, two implementations exist: `CompleteFileIngester`, which ingests
complete text files into a `Communication`, and `DoubleLineBreakFileIngester`,
which creates sections for each double line break (platform independent) in a
character-based file.

In the future, additional ingesters for other corpora will be relocated into
this project.

Consult the [README.md](ingesters/simple/README.md) for information on how
to run the simple ingester utilities.

### Type-bounded Thrift iterators
Iterators for creating and reading archives with generic Thrift-like objects
(e.g., `Clustering` objects) now exist in the `serialization` package. These use
reflection to read and write thrift-like object - any class generated by the
Thrift compiler (e.g., any class in concrete-core) can be used as the type bound.

Consumers working with `Communication` objects should maintain their dependency
on `CommunicationSerializer` and related implementations; these do not reflect.

Consult `BoundedThriftAPITest` for example usage, located
[here](util/src/test/java/edu/jhu/hlt/concrete/serialization/BoundedThriftAPITest.java).

### Additional thrift-based packages
Packages for thrift-specific datatypes (`Communication`, `Section`, etc.) have
been created. These contain utilities for working with these data types. For
example, the `SectionFactory` class allows a consumer to create a `Section`
with a UUID already assigned.

The following `Factory` classes are now in the library:

* `SectionFactory` ([source](util/src/main/java/edu/jhu/hlt/concrete/section/SectionFactory.java))
* `AnnotationMetadataFactory` ([source](util/src/main/java/edu/jhu/hlt/concrete/metadata/AnnotationMetadataFactory.java))
* `CommunicationFactory` ([source](util/src/main/java/edu/jhu/hlt/concrete/communications/CommunicationFactory.java))
* `UUIDFactory` ([source](util/src/main/java/edu/jhu/hlt/concrete/uuid/UUIDFactory.java))

### `edu.jhu.hlt.concrete.random` package
Functionality for generating mock Concrete objects has moved to the
`edu.jhu.hlt.concrete.random` package. The class `RandomConcreteFactory`
contains numerous tools to generate synthetic Concrete objects. It replaces the
now deprecated `ConcreteFactory`.

### `SingleSectionSegmenter` for creating whole-document sections
The `SingleSectionSegmenter` class introduces a method that will convert
an entire `String` of text into a `Section` object, with the correct `TextSpan`,
and the assigned `sectionKind`.

The class can be viewed [here](util/src/main/java/edu/jhu/hlt/concrete/section/SingleSectionSegmenter.java).

### `edu.jhu.hlt.concrete.data` package removed
This package did not belong in `concrete-java` and has been removed. If
consumers need access to this code, it will appear in another library
in the near future.

### Deprecations
The following classes are deprecated and will be removed in a future release.

* `ConcreteFactory` - replaced by `RandomConcreteFactory`
* `ConcreteUUIDFactory` - replaced by `UUIDFactory`
* `Util` - replaced by method in `UUIDFactory`
* `Serialization` - replaced by `ThriftSerializer`
